so I'm really excited to introduce proto
school protocol is an educational
community that teaches decentralized web
protocols tools concepts and we do it
through online tutorials and local
chapter events so you can see I have a
deck here for you but I'm actually going
to jump out to the website to show you
some of this the really the heart of
proto school is these interactive
tutorials almost all of which use code
challenges so as an example this is kind
of the introductory lesson that we have
to ipfs the first one that really starts
talking about that and you see that you
introduce a new concept in each lesson
and then you're asking the user to
complete a code challenge so for example
with this one I see that my goal is to
add a node that has test one so when I
try to do that so let's say I do it like
this and hit submit
we're giving feedback to the user this
one is actually quite useful some of the
feedback is not as clear as that one and
then we try to submit again we see that
it works and we're invited to move on to
the next lesson so this is built in a
way that we can do the lessons right in
the browser and get feedback as we go
yes you may have noticed that it's also
caching our code as we go so if I return
to this page later in the same browser
I'll have the same stuff stored here I
can reset the code and this makes it
really easy for people to follow along
and you'll actually see that there's
also a kind of status here of how far
along I am in my lessons you'll see
whether you've completed one or it's in
progress or so forth so we're really
excited about the like the format of the
website we have a few tutorials to start
with and I do just want to point out for
anyone who's not yet familiar with ipfs
or who are the decentralized web in
general or knows people who are still
trying to get their head around those
concepts this first lesson here on
decentralized data structures is new and
does not have any code challenges so
people who are not developers should be
able to walk through it and just get
some introduction into content addressee
and C IDs hashing those kinds of
concepts that make the decentralized
work and help explain
why we'd want to use it so you'll notice
that the content that we have right now
on the website is primarily about IP FS
but this is meant to be a site that's
about the decentralized web in general
and various protocols so whether that's
IP fsip LD limb p2p multi formats file
coin and projects beyond that we're
really interested in helping people
understand what's possible on the
decentralized so we have been given the
tools they need to get started in an
environment that's not intimidating this
is the okay.there lesson I mentioned one
of the ways that we can make this feel
less intimidating we think is with local
chapters and local events so we actually
had our first event on Friday and Denver
local chapters and around the world are
hosting live events that use those
tutorials as curricula but have from
mentors available for support on-site so
chapters operate independently but we
have sort of a support system in place
so each of them gets its own repo in our
org where it can share chapter info host
discussions lists upcoming events and
that because of the structure of our
repo that also means that a chapter can
choose to use github pages to build a
website which will then end up on our
domain the way that we have the repo set
up allows the organizers of various
chapters to pool their knowledge so the
org name is proto school and then in
here you'll see two repos pinned at the
top so proto school github Daioh is the
website code and that's where you would
go to look at the issues that we've
identified little tweaks we want to make
to the existing site or big tweaks new
lesson ideas etc but the other main repo
here is the organizing one and that's
where you're going to find the
information on how to start a new
chapter that's where you would open an
issue to request your new chapter and
then the other repos that you see here
are the repos for each of the existing
chapters but a few things I'd really
invite everyone on this call to do the
first is just explore the protocol
website and share some feedback so for
example if you're going through a
specific lesson at the bottom of the
page you'll see a customize link to
submit feedback that link
what page you're on I can help you start
really not by issue also if you go this
is you'll see we're in the Pro Toto
school org and then the proto school
that github do repo if you open a new
issue there are templates to help you do
something like give lesson feedback
request a new feature report a bug and
suggest a new tutorial this is one of
the things we need help with is figuring
out what are those next pieces of
content one of the ones we're excited to
do next is a lesson that works with the
the file API so that people can see how
to manipulate files as opposed to just
seeing how to manipulate data objects so
that's when we're excited about but
we're open to new suggestions for
tutorials and and and volunteers who are
able to help us build those and you can
find information on the website under
the build tab about how that's how the
tutorials are built one of the biggest
tasks for people who are who are game is
to start a local proto school chapter
but what does this entail it's important
to understand and what what you're
signing up for if you do that so as a
chapter organizer you'll be organizing a
local chapter events like I said using
the tutorials as curricula and providing
mentors it you can so organizing chapter
events is a big piece of this and you're
running those events independently with
the chapters that were we're really
committed to making sure that our
chapters have autonomy to lead their
events you have a repo to maintain
that's a great place to use the issues
as a place for discussions within your
chapter you can add essentially add the
people who come to your events as
members of your of your repo as a way to
then communicate them with easily share
announcements about events etc there is
an overarching code of conduct for proto
school to encourage us to create a
vibrant and inclusive community where
everyone's treated with with respects
and feels very welcome
but as a chapter organizer it's your
responsibility to make sure that your
specific chapter both the repo in the
events has a code of conduct that you're
responsible for enforcing and then this
is optional but highly recommended
building the chapter website
as I mentioned with github pages it
would be very easy to do that and host
it at our domain but but I can envision
that there are subchapter organizers who
will want to just use their repo as the
website just make a nice complete readme
use discussions there there are some
folks who might already be running a
meetup for example and we have ipfs
meetup organizers around the world who
might just use the repo and then link to
their a meetup page as the place where
events would be announced so it's up to
you the format that you want to take
with this but note that that chapter
website is made easier by I get hub
pages option and you can find complete
instructions for setting up a chapter in
our github repo and then the other thing
you can do is just help spread the word
so we're proto school on Twitter I can
help share the message and extend our
reach there